WebVR-XR Polyfill is a compatibility layer that provides an implementation of the deprecated WebVR API on top of the modern WebXR Device API. It is intended to enable applications written against WebVR to execute in user agents that no longer expose native WebVR interfaces but do support WebXR.
The polyfill operates by defining WebVR interfaces such as navigator.getVRDisplays, VRDisplay, and associated data structures, and internally mapping their behavior to corresponding WebXR concepts, including XRSystem, XRSession, and XRFrame. Where possible, method calls, pose data, frame submission, and presentation flows are translated to their closest WebXR equivalents. This allows existing application code to execute without modification in environments where only WebXR is available.
The implementation does not attempt to fully reproduce all historical WebVR behaviors. WebXR introduces differences in coordinate systems, session lifecycle management, input handling, and rendering models, and these differences may result in observable deviations. Functionality that has no direct analogue in WebXR may be approximated or omitted. As a result, compatibility is best-effort rather than complete.
The polyfill is designed to be loaded prior to application code so that WebVR interfaces are available at runtime. When a native WebVR implementation is present, the polyfill may defer to the native API or remain inactive, depending on configuration.
Configuration is provided through an optional initialization object. This object may be supplied before or during polyfill loading and controls runtime behavior. Typical parameters include:


enable: boolean value indicating whether the polyfill should override existing WebVR interfaces or only activate when they are absent.


mode: string value specifying translation strategy, such as "immersive-vr" or "inline", corresponding to the type of XRSession requested.


referenceSpaceType: string value indicating the default WebXR reference space (e.g., "local", "local-floor", or "bounded-floor").


frameRate: numeric hint used to align rendering loops with the underlying WebXR session.


debug: boolean value enabling logging of translation steps and compatibility warnings.


Configuration may be defined globally:
<script>  window.WebVRXRPolyfillConfig = {    enable: true,    mode: "immersive-vr",    referenceSpaceType: "local-floor",    debug: false  };</script><script src="webvr-xr-polyfill.js"></script>
or passed directly during initialization:
const polyfill = new WebVRXRPolyfill({  enable: true,  mode: "immersive-vr"});
The distribution typically consists of the following files:


webvr-xr-polyfill.js: main bundled script containing the compatibility layer and runtime logic.


webvr-xr-polyfill.module.js: ES module variant intended for modern build systems.


polyfill-core.js: internal implementation of API translation and state management.


devices.js: abstraction layer for mapping WebXR device capabilities to WebVR display semantics.


input.js: translation layer for controller and input source handling.


config.js: configuration parsing and default value definitions.


types.d.ts: optional TypeScript definitions for development environments requiring static typing.


Not all WebVR features have direct equivalents in WebXR, and behavior may vary depending on browser and device capabilities. This implementation is intended for transitional use and may evolve as browser support and specifications change.
